README.md, before:

mountepy
========

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/butla/mountepy.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/butla/mountepy)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/butla/mountepy/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github)](https://coveralls.io/github/butla/mountepy?branch=master)
[![Requirements Status](https://requires.io/github/butla/mountepy/requirements.svg?branch=master)](https://requires.io/github/butla/mountepy/requirements/?branch=master)

Utilities for creating (micro)service tests. Based on Mountebank.
* Test-framework-agnostic (use unittest, nose, py.test or whatever... but I like py.test).
* Tested on Python 3.4, Ubuntu 14 x64.
* Planned features in the road map below (this is still under development).

## Installation
1. Install NodeJS and NPM. On Ubuntu it's `sudo apt-get install -y nodejs-legacy npm`
2. Install Mountebank `npm install -g mountebank --production`
3. `pip3 install git+git://github.com/butla/mountepy.git`

If you want to lock on a specific version in requirements.txt then add to it a line pointing to a specific commit, e.g.:
```
git+git://github.com/butla/mountepy.git@456f22c
```

## Testing
Install and run tox
```
pip install tox
tox
```

## Examples
**TBD**

## Motivation
* Why Mountebank? It can be deployed as standalone application, is actively developed and supports TCP mocks which can be used to simulate broken HTTP messages.
* Why not [Pretenders](https://github.com/pretenders/pretenders)? Doesn't support TCP, the development doesn't seem to be active.
* Why not [WireMock](https://github.com/tomakehurst/wiremock)? I don't want to be forced to install Java to run tests and it doesn't seem to have more features than Mountebank.
* Why create a new project? There already is a [Python Mountebank wrapper](https://github.com/aholyoke/mountebank-python), but it doesn't offer much.

## Road map
1. Class for managing all spawned processes to enable faster overall start.
1. Simpler impostor definition.
1. Provide examples.
1. Services that take configuration through environment variables. *(Maybe for another project)*
  1. This configuration can be CloudFoundry specific (VCAP_SERVICES, VCAP_APPLICATION).
  1. Validate if services defined in VCAP_SERVICES are in application's manifest.
1. Add example of calling services through client generated with [Bravado](https://github.com/Yelp/bravado)
1. Remove MANIFEST.in like they did in PyScaffold.
1. Make Python 2.7 compatible... maybe.
1. Check if cycling port_for.is_available() is as good as _wait_for_endpoint. If not, add that to port_for.
1. Add to PyPI.

Commit message:

Class for concurrent starting and stopping of multiple services.

README.md, after:

mountepy
========

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/butla/mountepy.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/butla/mountepy)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/butla/mountepy/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github)](https://coveralls.io/github/butla/mountepy?branch=master)
[![Requirements Status](https://requires.io/github/butla/mountepy/requirements.svg?branch=master)](https://requires.io/github/butla/mountepy/requirements/?branch=master)

Utilities for creating (micro)service tests. Based on Mountebank.
* Test-framework-agnostic (use unittest, nose, py.test or whatever... but I like py.test).
* Tested on Python 3.4, Ubuntu 14 x64.
* Planned features in the road map below (this is still under development).

## Installation
1. Install NodeJS and NPM. On Ubuntu it's `sudo apt-get install -y nodejs-legacy npm`
2. Install Mountebank `npm install -g mountebank --production`
3. `pip3 install git+git://github.com/butla/mountepy.git`

If you want to lock on a specific version in requirements.txt then add to it a line pointing to a specific commit, e.g.:
```
git+git://github.com/butla/mountepy.git@456f22c
```

## Testing
Install and run tox
```
pip install tox
tox
```

## Examples
**TBD**

## Motivation
* Why Mountebank? It can be deployed as standalone application, is actively developed and supports TCP mocks which can be used to simulate broken HTTP messages.
* Why not [Pretenders](https://github.com/pretenders/pretenders)? Doesn't support TCP, the development doesn't seem to be active.
* Why not [WireMock](https://github.com/tomakehurst/wiremock)? I don't want to be forced to install Java to run tests and it doesn't seem to have more features than Mountebank.
* Why create a new project? There already is a [Python Mountebank wrapper](https://github.com/aholyoke/mountebank-python), but it doesn't offer much.

## Road map
1. Simpler impostor definition.
1. Provide examples.
1. Services that take configuration through environment variables. *(Maybe for another project)*
  1. This configuration can be CloudFoundry specific (VCAP_SERVICES, VCAP_APPLICATION).
  1. Validate if services defined in VCAP_SERVICES are in application's manifest.
1. Add example of calling services through client generated with [Bravado](https://github.com/Yelp/bravado)
1. Remove MANIFEST.in like they did in PyScaffold.
1. Requirements in setup.py should be extracted automatically from requirements.txt.
1. Make Python 2.7 compatible... maybe.
1. Check if cycling port_for.is_available() is as good as _wait_for_endpoint. If not, add that to port_for.
1. Add to PyPI.
